# Predicting New NFL RB Contracts Based on Contract Year Stats
In salary cap sports leagues, teams can only spend a certain amount of money per season on players. Better players often command more money and can price themselves out of a team's budget. This creates the need for teams to place a dollar value on players as a percentage of the salary cap. Teams that can sign players to "team-friendly" contracts (in other words, contracts that are below market value for what the player provides and thus provide excess value to the team) often are more successful in salary cap leagues. NFL running backs (RBs) have traditionally been evaluated based off rushing output (rushing yards, rushing touchdowns, rushing expected points added [EPA], etc.). However, in the modern, pass-heavy NFL, RBs are now also evaluated off their passing output (receiving touchdowns, targets, etc.). 

The purpose of this analysis was to develop a linear regression model to predict new RB contracts' average salary cap percentage (CapAPY) based off their contract year (defined as the last season of their old contract) statistics. It was hypothesized that Rushing EPA and Total Touchdowns would be significant predictors. Prior to developing the model, I looked at some scatterplots to ensure there would be a relationship between the selected statistics and CapAPY. Ultimately, the selected inputs to the model were Rushing EPA, Rushing First Downs, Target Share %, Receiving EPA, and Total Touchdowns. 

The model was significant and able to predict new contract CapAPY. While Rushing EPA and Total Touchdowns during the contract year were significant predictors, their regression coefficients paled in comparison to Target Share. Additionally, Receiving EPA was also a significant predictor and had an identical regression coefficient to Rushing EPA. These reults demonstrate that RBs who have greater passing-game outputs are more valuable to teams than RBs who only contribute to the running-game. Future work should look at how these trends change(d) over time.

NOTE: I ran this in Spyder through Anaconda. The figures will save as PNG files in the directory you run this code in. Individual plots have been uploaded to the repo.
